<!--  
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⠀⠀⠀⠀⠉⠙⠻⣦⡀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⣠⣴⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠘⠲⣤⡀⠈⢻⡄⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⡄⠀⣴⣶⣶⣶⣶⣶⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⣦⡀⠈⢻⡄⠈⣿⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀⡇⠀⢸⡷⠀⢸⡷⠀⣿⡇⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠃⠀⠻⠿⠿⠿⠿⠿⢿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠟⠁⢀⣼⠃⢀⣿⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢲⣶⣶⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠙⠻⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⢠⠴⠛⠁⢀⣼⠃⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠘⣿⣿⣆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠙⠀⠀⠀⠀⣀⣠⣴⠟⠁⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢻⣿⣿⣆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠉⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠘⠛⠛⠛
-->
# 📢 Open Paging Server Contributing Guidelines </>
Thank you for your interest in developing for the Open Paging Server project. This document will introduce you to the project, some things you need to know, how to contribute, and guidelines for pull requests.

This document is still in progress and will be updated and finished over time.

## General Q&A 

### What is Open Paging Server
Open Paging Server is a free & open source public address, bell, and mass notification system that runs on existing VoIP infrastructure.

### What is it programmed in?
Open Paging Server's is written in Python.

## How do I get involved and contribute?
Our community is mainly on [Discord](https://discord.openpagingserver.org), and we will also expand to more places in the future.

Becoming an active contributor is as easy as submitting a pull request on the project's [GitHub](https://github.com/OpenPagingServer/OpenPagingServer), which is our main platform for project development.

## Support
As an open-source project, support is provided by the community in the Discord server. At this time, Open Paging Server does not offer commercial support services.

The [Open Paging Server Online Documentation](https://docs.openpagingserver.org/) may include answers to your questions.

## Reporting bugs or requests 
> [!WARNING]
> **DO NOT REPORT** security-related vulnerabilities or bugs containing other sensitive information publicly. Instead, email securityissues@openpagingserver.org.
> The Open Paging Server project staff team will determine the best next steps as soon as possible.

Non-security-related bug reports or feature requests can be reported either in the [Issues page on GitHub](https://github.com/OpenPagingServer/OpenPagingServer/issues) or the wishlist-requests-issues fourm channel on the Discord server.

Before submitting a bug report, make sure you are using the latest version of Open Paging Server. If the issue persists, check if an open Issue on GitHub already exists and submit the bug report with your operating system, hardware information, Python version, web server, and PHP version, and a list of Python packages and their version installed in your virtual environment. This report can be automatically generated by running scripts/build_debug_report.py in the OpenPagingServer directory using the virtual environment. 

Please provide as much context as possible. Including how you found the bug and reproduction steps, if any changes were made recently to your server, system, or environment up to around 72 hours before the issue occurred, screenshots, pictures, or recordings, and if applicable, any log outputs. (To enable logging, change DEBUG to yes in .env)

## Pull request guidelines
1. You must have be the author or have the right to use the content.
1. By contributing, you agree that the content you contribute will be provided under the Open Paging Server project's license (GPL 2.0).

## Questions, Comments, Concerns? Contact the Open Paging Server project.

Email: contact@openpagingserver.org

Telephone: +1 (877) 595-0746

Discord: Open a ticket in our Discord server



